doc/userdoc/configuration.rst, before:

.. vim: set ft=rst fenc=utf-8 tw=72 nowrap:

*************
Configuration
*************

The configuration file is called ``config.yml`` and is a YAML file
containing the settings of your site.  Every line that starts with ``#``
is considered a comment and won't be taken into consideration.

This variables are:

``site_name``
    Name of the blog

``site_description``
    A description of tagline for your website

``site_copyright``
    License of your content

``site_author``
    The author of the website.  Articles without the ``author`` meta tag
    will default to this value

``canonical_uri``
    The final address of your site in the WWW

``base_uri``
    If commented or not set, will default to the root ``/``; otherwise
    the site will be generated inside this folder.  Maybe you host a
    website where the blog is just a part of it, and want to keep it
    separated in a different folder, for example, in a ``blog/`` folder,
    so ``http://website.com/`` contains your front page, and
    ``http://website.com/blog/`` the blog.  If that's the case, set
    ``base_uri: "blog/"``.

``feed_format``
    Default format for syndication feed; valid values are ``rss`` and
    ``atom``.  If invalid value, it defaults to ``atom``.

``comments``
    If you decide to add some code at the end of the ``entry.html.j2``
    template concerning an external comments engine, this variable
    activates or deactivates the comments for all the site.  Individual
    posts may be configured to not have comments even when this variable
    is set to ``"yes"``.

``site_language``
    Language of your site, this variable is passed to
    the HTML code.

``encoding``
    The encoding you are using in your texts, by default
    is UTF-8, very much recommended.

``locale``
    Your locale settings.  Depending on the locale you have installed on
    your machine, you can select this.  If there's a translation of the
    blog to that locale, the autogenerated text will be translated, as
    well as by using locale date format strings.

``max_entries``
    Maximum number of entries in the home page, those that exceed this
    number will be paginated

``default_category``
    Default category name for those posts that are not categorized.

``datefmt_home``
    Date format used in the home page

``datefmt_entry``
    Date format in the post page, as a subtitle

``datefmt_list``
    Date format when listing posts in tags or categories pages.

``extra_dirs``
    Extra directories that will be copied to the deploy directory, by
    default, ``_build``.  Used to transport media files, other
    documents, to the generated werbsite.

Default ``config.yml`` file:

.. code:: yaml

    ---
    site_name: "WEBSITE name"
    site_description: "This website is awesome."
    site_copyright: "CC BY-NC-ND 4.0"
    site_author: "Nameless Author"

    canonical_uri: "http://your-site-uri/"
    #base_uri: "blog/"

    feed_format: "atom"
    comments: "no"

    site_language: "en"
    encoding: "utf-8"
    locale: "en_US.UTF-8"

    max_entries: 8
    default_category: "Miscellaneous"

    datefmt_home: "%F"
    datefmt_entry: "%c"
    datefmt_list: "%b %_d, %Y"

    extra_dirs: ['media']
    ...

.. note:: In future versions, more options will be added, such as:

    ``site_author``:
        Right now is just a string, but it will allow to enter a list
        of authors, comma separated.  Same for entries ``author`` meta
        tag.

Commit message:

Refactor, error log to file/stream, feed disabling
Refactor ``Builder`` class using the ``Meta.as_dict()`` to retrieve all
metadata values.  Also, date formatting by using ``datetime.isoformat``
instead of generating manually that value (although this makes mandatory
to use Python >= 3.6).

Some variables concerning dates have been renamed to ``odate`` (original
date) and ``mdate`` (modified date), and templates were updated in
consequence.

Error log files, previously only logging to a file (``pynfact.err``) by
default, now can log to stream if using ``--log=/dev/stdout`` or
``--log=/dev/stderr`` from the command line.  Also, this error and
warning logger can be disabled by setting ``--log=/dev/null``.

Feed can be disabled and not generated, not even the link from the
navigation bar if set to a value that do not match ``'rss'.lower()`` nor
``'atom'.lower()``.  It could be set to ``'none'``, for example, to
avoid generating it.  Base template updated as well to reflect this
change.

doc/userdoc/configuration.rst, after:

.. vim: set ft=rst fenc=utf-8 tw=72 nowrap:

*************
Configuration
*************

The configuration file is called ``config.yml`` and is a YAML file
containing the settings of your site.  Every line that starts with ``#``
is considered a comment and won't be taken into consideration.

This variables are:

``site_name``
    Name of the blog

``site_description``
    A description of tagline for your website

``site_copyright``
    License of your content

``site_author``
    The author of the website.  Articles without the ``author`` meta tag
    will default to this value

``canonical_uri``
    The final address of your site in the WWW

``base_uri``
    If commented or not set, will default to the root ``/``; otherwise
    the site will be generated inside this folder.  Maybe you host a
    website where the blog is just a part of it, and want to keep it
    separated in a different folder, for example, in a ``blog/`` folder,
    so ``http://website.com/`` contains your front page, and
    ``http://website.com/blog/`` the blog.  If that's the case, set
    ``base_uri: "blog/"``.

``feed_format``
    Default format for syndication feed; valid values are ``rss`` and
    ``atom``.  Any other value will disable the feed generation.  For
    example, to deactivate the feed generation, set this value to
    ``none``, so there will be no feed nor links to the feed in the
    navigation bar.

``comments``
    If you decide to add some code at the end of the ``entry.html.j2``
    template concerning an external comments engine, this variable
    activates or deactivates the comments for all the site.  Individual
    posts may be configured to not have comments even when this variable
    is set to ``"yes"``.

``site_language``
    Language of your site, this variable is passed to
    the HTML code.

``encoding``
    The encoding you are using in your texts, by default
    is UTF-8, very much recommended.

``locale``
    Your locale settings.  Depending on the locale you have installed on
    your machine, you can select this.  If there's a translation of the
    blog to that locale, the autogenerated text will be translated, as
    well as by using locale date format strings.

``max_entries``
    Maximum number of entries in the home page, those that exceed this
    number will be paginated

``default_category``
    Default category name for those posts that are not categorized.

``datefmt_home``
    Date format used in the home page

``datefmt_entry``
    Date format in the post page, as a subtitle

``datefmt_list``
    Date format when listing posts in tags or categories pages.

``extra_dirs``
    Extra directories that will be copied to the deploy directory, by
    default, ``_build``.  Used to transport media files, other
    documents, to the generated werbsite.

Default ``config.yml`` file:

.. code:: yaml

    ---
    site_name: "WEBSITE name"
    site_description: "This website is awesome."
    site_copyright: "CC BY-NC-ND 4.0"
    site_author: "Nameless Author"

    canonical_uri: "http://your-site-uri/"
    #base_uri: "blog/"

    feed_format: "atom"
    comments: "no"

    site_language: "en"
    encoding: "utf-8"
    locale: "en_US.UTF-8"

    max_entries: 8
    default_category: "Miscellaneous"

    datefmt_home: "%F"
    datefmt_entry: "%c"
    datefmt_list: "%b %_d, %Y"

    extra_dirs: ['media']
    ...

.. note:: In future versions, more options will be added, such as:

    ``site_author``:
        Right now is just a string, but it will allow to enter a list
        of authors, comma separated.  Same for entries ``author`` meta
        tag.
