README.rst, before:

######
README
######

Pynfact is a simple static website generator oriented to chronological
content, like blogs or websites with historic and sequential data.  It
allows integration with external scripts, comment engines such as
Disqus, TalkYard, etc., or Google Analytics...  Theming and
configuration is possible by editing Jinja2 templates.

:Purpose:        A blog-oriented static website generator
:Latest version: **1.2.1a1** (2020-03-15)

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/pynfact.svg
   :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/pynfact

Features
========

* Input format: Markdown
* Output format: HTML5
* Configuration: Jinja2 templates
* Locale support (``gettext``)
* Code syntax highlighting (``Pygments``)
* Atom/RSS feed generation

Requirements
============

* **Python 3**
* **Markdown**: Python implementation of Markdown
* **Unidecode**: ASCII transliterations of Unicode text
* **feedgen**: Feed Generator (Atom, RSS, Podcasts)
* **Jinja2**: A small but fast and easy to use stand-alone template
  engine written in pure Python

Installation
============

Run::

    $ pip install pynfact

(If your default version of Python is 2.x, maybe you need to type
``pip3`` instead of ``pip``)

Usage
=====

The interaction is done by command line.  Only a few commands are
needed:

#. ``pynfact init <myblog>``: Create a folder with all needed content
#. Go to that directory: ``cd <myblog>``
#. Configure settings in ``config.yml``, title, name, language...
#. ``pynfact build``: Generates the static content
#. ``pynfact serve``: Serves locally to test the results
   (by default at ``localhost:4000``)

More details at: <https://github.com/jacorbal/pynfact/wiki>.

Recent changes
==============

* Improve code readability to comply with :PEP:`8` and :PEP:`257`
* Generate pages slugs as posts, i.e, from the title, not the filename
* Add logging support using ``logging``
* Put every page in the same directory: ``pages``
* Deploy as Python package at PyPI:
  `<https://pypi.org/project/pynfact/>`_
* Add Esperanto locale (``eo``)
* Simplify ``Builder``  class constructor, now takes a configuration
  dictionary, sorted semantically
* Replace ``feedgen`` for ``pyatom`` to generate RSS/Atom syndication
  feeds

Why this name?
==============

Granted it will be used on the "web", the word "log" in Latin may be
translated as *INdicem FACTorum*, hence *InFact* or **-nFact** to be
more easily pronounceable when prepending the prefix *py-*, an indicator
of the programming language where it has been developed.

Also, *pyblog*, *pyblic*, *pyweblog* and many other cool names were
already taken.

Contributing
============

Bugs
~~~~

Lots!  This project is still in development, so there are probably a
lot of bugs that need to be fixed before deploying a stable release.
If you find a bug, please, report it at the `GitHub issue
tracker`_.

Getting help, suggesting, asking questions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There's the subreddit `r/PynFact`_ wher you can state your problem,
offer tips, make sugestions, or ask questions; or via classic email.

License
=======

*PynFact!* is distributed under the `MIT License`_.  Read the
``LICENSE`` file embeeded in this project for more information.


.. .. _pynfact_logo: logo.png

.. _`GitHub issue tracker`: https://github.com/jacorbal/pynfact/issues
.. _r/PynFact: https://www.reddit.com/r/PynFact/
.. _`MIT License`: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

Commit message:

CLI interface with ``argparser`` and modularized

README.rst, after:

######
README
######

Pynfact is a simple static website generator oriented to chronological
content, like blogs or websites with historic and sequential data.  It
allows integration with external scripts, comment engines such as
Disqus, TalkYard, etc., or Google Analytics...  Theming and
configuration is possible by editing Jinja2 templates.

:Purpose:        A blog-oriented static website generator
:Latest version: **1.3.1a1** (2020-03-16)

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/pynfact.svg
   :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/pynfact

Features
========

* Input format: Markdown
* Output format: HTML5
* Configuration: Jinja2 templates
* Locale support (``gettext``)
* Code syntax highlighting (``Pygments``)
* Atom/RSS feed generation

Requirements
============

* **Python 3**
* **Markdown**: Python implementation of Markdown
* **Unidecode**: ASCII transliterations of Unicode text
* **feedgen**: Feed Generator (Atom, RSS, Podcasts)
* **Jinja2**: A small but fast and easy to use stand-alone template
  engine written in pure Python

Installation
============

Run::

    $ pip install pynfact

(If your default version of Python is 2.x, maybe you need to type
``pip3`` instead of ``pip``)

Usage
=====

The interaction is done by command line.  Only a few commands are
needed:

#. ``pynfact --init=<myblog>``: Create a folder with all needed content
#. Go to that directory: ``cd <myblog>``
#. Configure settings in ``config.yml``, title, name, language...
#. ``pynfact --build``: Generates the static content
#. ``pynfact --serve=localhost``: Serves locally to test the results
   (by default at ``localhost:4000``)

More details at: <https://github.com/jacorbal/pynfact/wiki>.

Recent changes
==============

* CLI interface with ``argparser`` and more modularized
* Improve code readability to comply with :PEP:`8` and :PEP:`257`
* Generate pages slugs as posts, i.e, from the title, not the filename
* Add logging support using ``logging``
* Put every page in the same directory: ``pages``
* Deploy as Python package at PyPI:
  `<https://pypi.org/project/pynfact/>`_
* Add Esperanto locale (``eo``)
* Simplify ``Builder``  class constructor, now takes a configuration
  dictionary, sorted semantically
* Replace ``feedgen`` for ``pyatom`` to generate RSS/Atom syndication
  feeds

Why this name?
==============

Granted it will be used on the "web", the word "log" in Latin may be
translated as *INdicem FACTorum*, hence *InFact* or **-nFact** to be
more easily pronounceable when prepending the prefix *py-*, an indicator
of the programming language where it has been developed.

Also, *pyblog*, *pyblic*, *pyweblog* and many other cool names were
already taken.

Contributing
============

Bugs
~~~~

This project is still in development, so there are probably lots of bugs
that need to be fixed before deploying a stable release.  If you find a
bug, please, report it at the `GitHub issue tracker`_.

Getting help, suggesting, asking questions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There's the subreddit `r/PynFact`_ wher you can state your problem,
offer tips, make sugestions, or ask questions; or via classic email.

License
=======

*PynFact!* is distributed under the `MIT License`_.  Read the
``LICENSE`` file embeeded in this project for more information.


.. .. _pynfact_logo: logo.png

.. _`GitHub issue tracker`: https://github.com/jacorbal/pynfact/issues
.. _r/PynFact: https://www.reddit.com/r/PynFact/
.. _`MIT License`: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
